AWS storage services are grouped into three categories: **file storage**, **block storage**, and **object storage**. In file storage, data is stored as files in a hierarchy. In block storage, data is stored in fixed-size blocks. And in object storage, data is stored as objects in buckets.

#### File storage
Files are organized in a tree-like hierarchy that consist of folders and subfolders. File storage is ideal when you require centralized access to files that must be easily shared and managed by multiple host computers. Typically, this storage is mounted onto multiple hosts, and requires file locking and integration with existing file system communication protocols.
[[EFS]]
[[FSx]]

#### Block storage
Block storage splits files into fixed-size chunks of data called blocks that have their own addresses. Each block is an individual piece of data storage. Because each block is addressable, blocks can be retrieved efficiently.
When data is requested, the addresses are used by the storage system to organize the blocks in the correct order to form a complete file to present back to the requestor. Besides the address, no additional metadata is associated with each block.
**Use cases**:
Because block storage is optimized for low-latency operations, it is a preferred storage choice for high-performance enterprise workloads and transactional, mission-critical, and I/O-intensive applications.
[[Instance store and EBS]]

#### Object storage
In object storage, files are stored as objects. Objects, much like files, are treated as a single, distinct unit of data when stored. However, unlike file storage, these objects are stored in a bucket using a flat structure, meaning there are no folders, directories, or complex hierarchies. Each object contains a unique identifier. This identifier, along with any additional metadata, is bundled with the data and stored.
**Use cases**:
With object storage, you can store almost any type of data, and there is no limit to the number of objects stored, which makes it readily scalable. Object storage is generally useful when storing large or unstructured data sets.
[[S3]]