#### VPS
With Amazon **Virtual Private Cloud**, you can launch AWS resources in a logically isolated virtual network that you've defined.

**To create VPS**: Region, IP range.
#### CIDR
**Classless Inter-Domain Routing.**
CIDR notation - 192.168.1.0/24
/24 - how many of the bits of the IP address are fixed. (192.168.1 - fixed). Last 8 bits are flexible (0). Each of these flexible bits can be either 0 or 1. That means there are 256 IP addresses in that IP range.
#### Subnet
You divide VPS space into smaller segments called subnets. You put AWS resources, such as EC2 instance inside of these subnets.
The goal is having more granular control. For example we have several apps, one of them should have the Internet access. Then we can put it to subnet with Internet connectivity. For other more private apps we can have another subnet without access to Internet.
A subnet is a range of IP addresses in your VPC. You can connect a subnet to the internet, other VPCs, and your own data centers, and route traffic to and from your subnets using route tables.
If we want to use several AZs we need to create a subnet in each AZ.

**To create subnet**: VPC, AZ, IP range (subset of VPS range).

#### Internet Gateway
To enable internet connectivity from VPS we need a component called an internet gateway.

#### Reserved IPs
AWS reserves five IP addresses in each subnet. These IP addresses are used for routing, Domain Name System (DNS), and network management.
A common starting place for those who are new to the cloud is to create a VPC with an IP range of /16 and create subnets with an IP range of /24. This provides a large amount of IP addresses to work with at both the VPC and subnet levels.

#### Flow
1. **Create VPS**: choose IP range
2. **Create subnets**: in each AZ, public, private etc...
3. **Create an Internet gateway**
4. **Attach the Internet gateway to the VPS**: one gateway for one VPS
5. **Create a route table and attach to the VPS**
6. **Add a route for the Internet gateway**
7. **Attach a subnet with the route table(with gateway)**: it makes the subnet "public"
8. **Create a security group**: during an instance launching


Links:
[[VPS Routing]]
[[VPS Security]]

#VPS #CIDR #subnet #route_tables #internet_gateway