#### Relational Database Service
[[RDS]]

#### Purpose-built databases
[[DynamoDB]] - NoSQL database for storing key value pairs or document data.

**ElastiCache** is a fully managed, in-memory caching solution. It provides support for two open-source, in-memory cache engines: Redis and Memcached. You aren’t responsible for instance failovers, backups and restores, or software upgrades.

**MemoryDB for Redis** is a Redis-compatible, durable, in-memory database service that delivers ultra-fast performance.

**DocumentDb (Mongo compatibility)** is is a fully managed document database from AWS. A document database is a type of NoSQL database you can use to store and query rich documents in your application. These types of databases work well for the following use cases: content management systems, profile management, and web and mobile applications. DocumentDB has API compatibility with MongoDB. This means you can use popular open-source libraries to interact with Amazon DocumentDB.

**Amazon Keyspaces (for Apache Cassandra)** is Apache Cassandra compatible database service.

**Neptune** is a fully managed graph database offered by AWS. A graph database is a good choice for highly connected data with a rich variety of relationships. Companies often use graph databases for recommendation engines, fraud detection, and knowledge graphs.

**Quantum Ledger Database (Amazon QLDB)**. With traditional databases, you can overwrite or delete data, so developers use techniques, such as audit tables and audit trails to help track data lineage. These approaches can be difficult to scale and put the burden of ensuring that all data is recorded on the application developer. Amazon QLDB is a purpose-built ledger database that provides a complete and cryptographically verifiable history of all changes made to your application data.