#### Metrics
A metric represents a time-ordered set of data points that are published to CloudWatch. Every metric data point must be associated with a timestamp.
AWS services that send data to CloudWatch attach dimensions to each metric. A **dimension** is a name and value pair that is part of the metric’s identity. For example, many Amazon EC2 metrics publish **InstanceId** as a dimension name and the actual instance ID as the value for that dimension.

#### CloudWatch Logs
**Log event** is a record of activity. It has a timestamp and an event message.

**Log stream** - log events are grouped into log streams, which are sequence of log events that all belong to the same resource being monitored. For example, logs for an EC2 instance are grouped together into a log stream. When EC2 instance is changed, a stream is also changed.

**Log group** is composed of log stream that all share the same **retention** and **permission** settings.

#### CloudWatch alarms
You can create CloudWatch alarms to automatically initiate actions based on sustained state changes of your metrics. You configure when alarms are invoked and the action that is performed.
An alarm can be invoked when it transitions from one state to another. After an alarm is invoked, it can initiate an action. Actions can be an Amazon EC2 action, an automatic scaling action, or a notification sent to Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS).
An alarm states:
- **OK** - the metric is within the defined threshold.
- **ALARM** - the metric is outside the defined threshold.
- **INSUFFICIENT DATA** - the alarm has just started, not enough data.