## Amazon Simple Storage Service
Unlike EBS, Amazon S3 is a standalone storage solution that isn’t tied to compute. With Amazon S3, you can retrieve your data from anywhere on the web.
In S3, you store your objects in containers called buckets. When you store an object in a bucket, the combination of a bucket name, key, and version ID uniquely identifies the object.

#### Bucket names
S3 supports global buckets. Therefore, each bucket name must be unique across all AWS accounts in all AWS Regions. When naming a bucket, choose a name that is relevant to you or your business.

#### Object key names
The object key (key name) uniquely identifies the object in an Amazon S3 bucket. When you create an object, you specify the key name. As described earlier, the Amazon S3 model is a flat structure, meaning there is no hierarchy of subbuckets or subfolders. However, the Amazon S3 console does support the concept of folders. By using key name prefixes and delimiters, you can imply a logical hierarchy.

#### Security 
Everything in Amazon S3 is private by default. If you decide that you want everyone on the internet to see your photos, you can choose to make your buckets and objects public. To be more specific about who can do what with your Amazon S3 resources, Amazon S3 provides several security management features: IAM policies, S3 bucket policies, and encryption to develop and implement your own security policies.
##### IAM policies
When IAM policies are attached to your resources (buckets and objects) or IAM users, groups, and roles, the policies define which actions they can perform. Access policies that you attach to your resources are referred to as _resource-based policies_ and access policies attached to users in your account are called user policies.
You should use IAM policies for private buckets in the following two scenarios:
- you have many buckets with different permission requirements. Instead of defining many different S3 bucket policies, you can use IAM policies
- you want all policies to be in a centralized location. By using IAM policies, you can manage all policy information in one location.
##### S3 bucket policies
Like IAM policies, S3 bucket policies are defined in a JSON format. Unlike IAM policies, which are attached to resources and users, S3 bucket policies can only be attached to S3 buckets. The policy that is placed on the bucket applies to every object in that bucket. S3 bucket policies specify what actions are allowed or denied on the bucket.
You should use S3 bucket policies in the following scenarios:
- you need a simple way to do cross-account access to Amazon S3, without using IAM roles
- your IAM policies bump up against the defined size limit. S3 bucket policies have a larger size limit
#### S3 encryption
Amazon S3 reinforces encryption in transit (as it travels to and from Amazon S3) and at rest. To protect data, Amazon S3 automatically encrypts all objects on upload and applies server-side encryption with S3-managed keys as the base level of encryption for every bucket in Amazon S3 at no additional cost.

#### Access points
#### S3 versioning
Versioning keeps multiple versions of a single object in the same bucket. This preserves old versions of an object without using different names, which helps with object recovery from accidental deletions, accidental overwrites, or application failures.
If you enable versioning for a bucket, Amazon S3 automatically generates a unique version ID for the object.
By using versioning-enabled buckets, you can recover objects from accidental deletion or overwrite. The following are examples:
- deleting an object does not remove the object permanently. Instead, Amazon S3 puts a marker on the object that shows that you tried to delete it. If you want to restore the object, you can remove the marker and the object is reinstated
- if you overwrite an object, it results in a new object version in the bucket. You still have access to previous versions of the object

#### Storage lifecycle
- **Transition actions** define when objects should transition to another storage class
- **Expiration actions** define when objects expire and should be permanently deleted
For example, you might transition objects to S3 Standard-IA storage class 30 days after you create them. Or you might archive objects to the S3 Glacier Deep Archive storage class 1 year after creating them.

#### Tags